[IMP] fleet: new sections and forms (#8249)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/fleet/service.rst

needed. Scheduling repairs and managing services for an entire fleet is necessary to ensure all
vehicles are in good working order when they are needed.

> .. _service/service-form:

Reviewer: Please include the app/module name in the custom anchor. Please make sure to update all custom anchors and :ref: tags :) 
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#prefix-hyperlink-targets-with-application-names
```suggestion
.. _fleet/service-form:
```

Create a service record
=======================

> To log a service for a veicle, go to the main services dashboard by navigating to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To log a service for a vehicle, go to the main services dashboard by navigating to
```

> :menuselection:`Fleet app --> Fleet --> Services`. Click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left
> corner, and a new service form loads.

Reviewer 2: totally optional!
```suggestion
:menuselection:`Fleet app --> Fleet --> Services`. Open a new service form by clicking the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left
corner.
```

Fill out the information on the form. The only two fields that are required to be populated are
:guilabel:`Service Type` and :guilabel:`Vehicle`.

The service form automatically saves as data is entered. However, the form can be saved manually at
any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a :guilabel:`cloud upload`

> icon.

Reviewer 2: Since this function isn't unique to Fleet, but rather all forms in Odoo, I'd personally put this in a note admonition or not include this at all. Up to you though!

Author: I see what you mean, but the only reason I do want to keep it, is that it was just a few versions ago that you had to save everything. So if a reader is following this form had a previous version, I think it's good to know. Because even now, there's a few parts or forms here and there you have to manually save (not necessarily in Fleet, but in general across Odoo) while a lot gets auto-saved. I think I will remove these instructions when the last 3 versions are all auto-saving (the versions we support) but do want to include it for the time being.

Reviewer 3: I agree with FEKU's suggestion

> any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a :guilabel:`cloud upload`
> icon.

Reviewer: icon formatting
```suggestion
any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a :guilabel:`(cloud
upload)` icon.
```

The fields on the form are:

- :guilabel:`Description`: enter in a short description of the service.

> - :guilabel:`Service Type`: select the type of service performed using the drop-down menu, or enter
>   a new type of service and click either :guilabel:`Create "service type"` or :guilabel:`Create and
>   edit...` to :ref:`add the service type and configure it <service/new-type>`.

Reviewer 2: Since you go into such detail about how  to create a service type later, what do you think about simply linking to it? (: Keeps things short and, and you already did the work anyway (;
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Service Type`: choose from the drop-down menu, or :ref:`add the service type and configure it <service/new-type>`.
```

Author: The only reason I do want to keep it is they can just add it without configuring it (that part is not 100% necessary) and then if they do want to configure it, they can jump to those instructions.

>   .. note::

Reviewer 2: seems important to me o;
```suggestion
  .. important::
```

     :guilabel:`Service Types` are **not** pre-configured in Odoo. When logging a service for the
     first time, the *type* of service need to :ref:`first be created <service/new-type>` before it
     can be selected.

- :guilabel:`Date`: using the calendar popover, select the date the service was provided or is

>   scheduled to be performed. Navigate to the desired month using the :guilabel:`< > (arrow)` icons,

Reviewer 2: Totally personal preference
```suggestion
  scheduled to be performed. Navigate to the desired month using the left and right arrow icons,
```

> - :guilabel:`Date`: using the calendar pop-over window, select the date the service was provided, or

Reviewer: No hyphen in _popover_ :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Date`: using the calendar popover window, select the date the service was provided, or
```

  :guilabel:`Create` to add them, or  :guilabel:`Create and edit...` to :ref:`add and configure the
  vendor <service/new-vendor>`.
- :guilabel:`Vehicle`: select the vehicle that was serviced from the drop-down menu. When the
  vehicle is selected, the :guilabel:`Driver` field is populated, and the unit of measure for the
  :guilabel:`Mileage` field appears.
- :guilabel:`Driver`: the current driver listed for the selected vehicle is populated when the
  :guilabel:`Vehicle` is selected. If the driver needs to be changed, another driver can be selected
  from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Odometer Value`: enter the odometer reading when the service was done. The units of
  measure will either be in kilometers (:guilabel:`km`) or miles (:guilabel:`mi`), depending on how
  the selected vehicle was configured.

  When the :guilabel:`Vehicle` is selected, the units of measure is populated. This comes from the
  vehicle form.

  To change from kilometers to miles, or vice versa, click the :guilabel:`Internal Link` button to
  the right of the vehicle selected in the :guilabel:`Vehicle` field.

  Change the unit of measure, then navigate back to the service form via the

>   :guilabel:`breadcrumbs`. The unit of measure is updated in the :guilabel:`Odometer Value` field.

Reviewer 2: can possibly put this in a tip admonition, since changing the units of measure is not pertinent to filling out a service form

Author: Great idea!! I forget about "tips" and always use "notes". =)

>   When the :guilabel:`Vehicle` is selected, the units of measure for this field is populated. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  When the :guilabel:`Vehicle` is selected, the unit of measure for this field is populated. This
```

- :guilabel:`Notes`: enter any notes for the repair in the notes tab at the bottom of the service
  form.

.. image:: service/new-service.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the information for a new service. The required fields are Service Type and Vehicle.

.. _service/new-type:

Create service type
-------------------

Service types must be created from a service form, there is no other way to access the list of
service types.

On the :ref:`service form <service/service-form>`, type in the name of the new :guilabel:`Service
Type` in the field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...` and a :guilabel:`Create Service Type`
form appears.

> The service type entered on the service form populates the :guilabel:`Name` field by default. This
> field can be modified if desired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The service type entered on the service form automatically populates the :guilabel:`Name` field, which can be modified if needed.
```

> Service types must be created from a service form, there is no other way to access the list of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Service types must be created from a service form. There is no other way to access the list of
```

> Using the drop-down menu, select the :guilabel:`Category` this new service type falls under, if any.
> The two default options to chose form are :guilabel:`Contract` or :guilabel:`Service`. Additional
> categories cannot be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the :guilabel:`Category` for the new service type from the drop-down menu.
```

> Type` in the corresponding field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...` and a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Type` in the corresponding field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...`, and a
```

Additional categories **cannot** be created.

If the service applies to **only** contracts or services, select the corresponding
:guilabel:`Category`. If the service applies to **both** contracts *and* services, leave this field
blank.

When done, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

.. _service/new-vendor:

Create vendor
-------------

> When a service is done for the first time, typically the vendor is not in the database yet. It is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a service is done for the first time, typically, the vendor is not in the database yet. It is
```

is easily retrieved.

On the :ref:`service form <service/service-form>`, type in the name of the new :guilabel:`Vendor`
in the field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...` and a :guilabel:`Create Vendor` form
appears.

The vendor name entered on the service form populates the :guilabel:`Name` field by default. This
field can be modified if desired.

.. note::
   Depending on what other applications are installed, different tabs or fields may be visible on
   the :guilabel:`Create Vendor` form.

General information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Fill out the following information on the top-half of the form:

Reviewer 2: This section is correct and I'm sure whoever's reading it would appreciate the detail, but I'm not really sure if the information is much different from filling out a contact form. Do you have existing documentation on how to fill out a contact form that you can link to? 

In this section, I'd personally just include information specific and unique to filing out vendor forms, and shorten this section a little more. However, this is a nitpick.

I think this section is good to publish as-is for this PR, though. Personally, I'd shorten this section and link to the doc to create a new contact form in a follow-up PR, and boost your KPIs (; However, you can totally just disregard this comment entirely haha

Author: I do not- but I do reference a very similar form in another doc but it is for a totally different kind of form (and I am trying to remember where it was!). I would link IF there was a doc like this, but I would need to make one and figure out where it goes- as in, how often is this kind of form found and in which apps. I think that is a good idea for the future- but for now, I like that everything they need is in here. I do think that it is a good idea to make a separate doc for this- and link that to the places it would be appropriate- but since I don't know where that would be right now (and the information is necessary for this doc as-is/since there is no doc like that yet that I found) I will keep it for this version/revision.

> in the corresponding field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...` and a :guilabel:`Create

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in the corresponding field. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and edit...`, and a :guilabel:`Create
```

> - :guilabel:`Individual` or :guilabel:`Company`: choose if the vendor being added is an individual
>   or a company. Click the radio button to make a selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Individual` or :guilabel:`Company`: select whether the new vendor is an individual
  or a company. 
```

  not visible, that is because :guilabel:`Company` was selected, instead of :guilabel:`Individual`.
- :guilabel:`Name`: enter a name for the individual or company in this field.
- :guilabel:`Company Name`: using the drop-down menu, select the company that the vendor is
  associated with, if any.

  If the :guilabel:`Company` radio button at the top of the form is selected, this field does not
  appear.
- :guilabel:`Contact`: enter the contact information in this section.

  If desired, the :guilabel:`Contact` field can be changed to a different type of contact. Click on
  :guilabel:`Contact` to reveal a drop-down menu. The available options to select are
  :guilabel:`Contact`, :guilabel:`Invoice Address`, :guilabel:`Delivery Address`,
  :guilabel:`Follow-up Address`, or :guilabel:`Other Address`.

  If desired, select one of these other options for the :guilabel:`Contact` field, and enter the
  corresponding information.

  If :guilabel:`Company` is selected for the  :guilabel:`Individual` or :guilabel:`Company` field,
  this field is labeled :guilabel:`Address`, and **cannot** be modified.

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: enter the vendor's tax ID in this field.

> - :guilabel:`Job Position`: enter the vendor's job position in this field. the :guilabel:`Company`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Job Position`: enter the vendor's job position in this field. If the :guilabel:`Company`
```

  :guilabel:`Company` radio button at the top of the form is selected, this field does not appear.
- :guilabel:`Phone`: enter the vendor's phone number in this field.
- :guilabel:`Mobile`: enter the vendor's mobile number in this field.
- :guilabel:`Email`: enter the vendor's email address in this field.
- :guilabel:`Website`: enter the vendor's website address in this field.
- :guilabel:`Title`: using the drop-down menu, select the vendor's title in this field. The default
  options are :guilabel:`Doctor`, :guilabel:`Madam`, :guilabel:`Miss`, :guilabel:`Mister`, and
  :guilabel:`Professor`.

  If the :guilabel:`Company` radio button at the top of the form is selected, this field does not
  appear.
- :guilabel:`Tags`: using the drop-down menu, select any tags that apply to the vendor.

  To add a new tag, type in the tag, then click :guilabel:`Create "tag"`.

  There is no limit to the number of tags that can be selected.
- :guilabel:`Image`: a photo of either the main contact person, or the company logo, can be added to

>   the form. Hover over the :guilabel:`camera` box, in the top-right of the form, to reveal a

Reviewer: icon formatting
```suggestion
  the form. Hover over the :guilabel:`📷 (camera)` box, in the top-right of the form, to reveal a
```

  :guilabel:`✏️ (pencil)` icon, and click it. A file explorer window appears. Navigate to the
  desired file, then click :guilabel:`Open` to select it.

.. image:: service/create-vendor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The top portion of the create vendor form.

Contacts & Addresses tab
************************

After the top-half of the :guilabel:`Create Vendor` form is filled out, add any other contacts and
addresses associated with the vendor in this tab.

Click the :guilabel:`Add` button to add a new contact, and a :guilabel:`Create Contact` pop-up
window appears.

Select one of the appropriate contact type options from the radio buttons, located at the top of the
pop-up window. Those options are as follows:

>   - :guilabel:`Contact`: select this option to add general contact details for employees of the
>     associated vendor.
>   - :guilabel:`Invoice Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all invoices.
>     When added to the form, this address is selected by default when sending an invoice to the
>     associated vendor.
>   - :guilabel:`Delivery Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all deliveries.
>     When added to the form, this address is selected by default when delivering an order to the
>     associated vendor.
>   - :guilabel:`Follow-up Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all follow-up
>     correspondence. When added to the form, this address is selected by default when sending
>     reminders about overdue invoices.
>   - :guilabel:`Other Address`: select this option to add any other necessary addresses for the
>     vendor.

Reviewer: No need to indent these :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Contact`: select this option to add general contact details for employees of the
  associated vendor.
- :guilabel:`Invoice Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all invoices. When
  added to the form, this address is selected by default when sending an invoice to the associated
  vendor.
- :guilabel:`Delivery Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all deliveries.
  When added to the form, this address is selected by default when delivering an order to the
  associated vendor.
- :guilabel:`Follow-up Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all follow-up
  correspondence. When added to the form, this address is selected by default when sending
  reminders about overdue invoices.
- :guilabel:`Other Address`: select this option to add any other necessary addresses for the
  vendor.
```

.. image:: service/vendor-contact.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The create contact form with all parts filled in.

.. note::
   If an option *other than* :guilabel:`Contact` is selected for the contact type, an
   :guilabel:`Address` section appears on the form. Enter the address details in the
   :guilabel:`Address` section.

Add any notes to the :guilabel:`Internal notes...` section of the form.

After all of the information is added, click either :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the one new
contact, or :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current address record and create another address
record.

As contacts are added to this tab, each contact appears in a separate box, with an icon indicating
what type of contact is listed.

.. example::
   A :guilabel:`Delivery Address` displays a :guilabel:`⛟ (truck)` icon inside that specific address
   box, whereas an :guilabel:`Invoice Address` displays a :guilabel:`💵 (dollar bill)` icon inside.

   .. image:: service/contact-tab.png

>      :align: center
>      :alt: The create contact form with all parts filled in.

Reviewer: Image attributes need another space for indent
```suggestion
      :align: center
      :alt: The create contact form with all parts filled in.
```

  edit...` to :ref:`add the service type and configure it <service/new-type>`.

  .. important::
     :guilabel:`Service Types` are **not** pre-configured in Odoo. When logging a service for the
     first time, the *type* of service needs to :ref:`first be created <service/new-type>` before it
     can be selected.

- :guilabel:`Date`: using the calendar popover, select the date the service was provided or is
  scheduled to be performed. Navigate to the desired month using the :guilabel:`< > (arrow)` icons,
  then click on the date to select it.
- :guilabel:`Cost`: enter the cost of the service.
- :guilabel:`Vendor`: select the vendor who performed the service using the drop-down menu. If the
  vendor has not already been entered in the system, type in the vendor name and click either
  :guilabel:`Create` to add them, or  :guilabel:`Create and edit...` to :ref:`add and configure the
  vendor <service/new-vendor>`.
- :guilabel:`Vehicle`: select the vehicle that was serviced from the drop-down menu. When the
  vehicle is selected, the :guilabel:`Driver` field is populated, and the unit of measure for the

>   :guilabel:`Mileage` field appears.

Author: You are right- I changed it in the second field below but not this one.

  - :guilabel:`Follow-up Address`: select this option to add a preferred address for all follow-up
    correspondence. When added to the form, this address is selected by default when sending
    reminders about overdue invoices.
  - :guilabel:`Other Address`: select this option to add any other necessary addresses for the
    vendor.

.. image:: service/vendor-contact.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The create contact form with all parts filled in.

.. note::
   If an option *other than* :guilabel:`Contact` is selected for the :guilabel:`Contact Type`, an
   :guilabel:`Address` section appears on the form. Enter the address details in the
   :guilabel:`Address` section.

Add any notes to the :guilabel:`Internal notes...` section of the form.

After all of the information is added, click either :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the one new
contact, or :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current address record and create another address
record.

As contacts are added to this tab, each contact appears in a separate box, with an icon indicating
what type of contact is listed.

.. example::
   A :guilabel:`Contact` displays a person icon inside that specific address box, whereas an

>    :guilabel:`Invoice Address` displays a dollar sign icon inside.

Author: Yes! For some reason, I wanted to have the 'contact' box since that seemed like a default thing people would add- but there are no good emojis for that, nothing even close. So I changed it to a delivery and invoice address, since I could find a truck and dollar bill- and then updated the pic, too.

.. image:: service/views.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The icons in the top right corner than can be clicked to present the information in
         different ways.

List view
~~~~~~~~~

The default view of the service records is a list view. This presents all the services, first
grouped alphabetically by type of service, then grouped by status.

The information can be re-sorted by any column. At the top of each column, hover over the

> :guilabel:`column name`, and an arrow appears in the far-right of that column. Click the arrow to

Reviewer 2: Since there's no literal "column name" that's displayed on the UI
```suggestion
column name, and an arrow appears in the far-right of that column. Click the arrow to
```

December) instead of alphabetical order, while the :guilabel:`Cost` column sorts the information by
repair price, from lowest to highest.

Add a service
*************

To add a service record from the list view, click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a service form
loads. :ref:`Enter all the information <service/service-form>` on the service form.

The form automatically saves as data is entered.

Kanban view
~~~~~~~~~~~

To view services by their stage, click on the :guilabel:`Kanban icon`, which is the second icon in
the top-right corner, and appears as two different length bars beneath a line.

All services with the same status appear in the corresponding Kanban column, from
:guilabel:`Running` to :guilabel:`Cancelled`.

The number of repairs for each type of service appear in the far-right of each Kanban column header.

The status of any scheduled activities appear in the color-coded bar beneath each Kanban column
title. Repairs with activities scheduled in the future appear green, activities due today appear
yellow, overdue activities appear red, and repairs with no activities scheduled appear gray.

> Each Kanban card displays a color-coded :guilabel:`activity icon`, indicating what type of activity

Reviewer 2: I'd use a clock icon here, as we don't actually see "activity icon" literally, on the UI. If you want to describe an icon, how about `(activity icon)`, in parentheses?

Author: The only issue is, it is only a clock if there are no activities scheduled. if there are, the icon changes accordingly- a phone for a phone call, 3-line like a written entry for a meeting, etc. But I agree- since it's not the actual name, I'll put it in parenthesis. And I added a line with an explanation for a phone call icon, to make it more clear that these icons are different.

an :guilabel:`activity icon` to view the details of the activity.

The length of the color bar is proportionate to the number of corresponding activities with that
status. Hover over a color section to reveal the number of service records in that specific
grouping.

.. image:: service/kanban.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The service records presented in a Kanban view.

To view **only** the records with a specific status, click the desired :guilabel:`color bar`
section. The background color for the column changes to a pale hue of the same color (either green,
yellow, red, or gray), and the color bar appears striped instead of solid. **Only** repairs and
services with the selected status appear in the column.

.. image:: service/kanban-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The oil change service records showing only repairs with past-due activities.

.. _service/schedule-activity:

Schedule activities
*******************

To schedule an activity for a repair or service from the Kanban view, click the :guilabel:`activity
icon` in the lower-right corner of the service record, and click :guilabel:`+ Schedule an activity`.

> A :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` for appears in a pop-up window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up window appears.
```

corresponding buttons.

.. image:: service/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A bar chart view of the services and repairs, with the various option buttons highlighted.

Pivot view
~~~~~~~~~~

The final way to view the service data is in a spreadsheet pivot table. Click the :guilabel:`Pivot`
icon, which is the fourth icon in the top-right, and appears as a small spreadsheet.

The default way the data is presented shows the total cost of each type of service. The horizontal
rows represent the various types of service, with a different service type in its own line. The
vertical columns represent the total costs for each specific type of service, further divided by the
type of service.

.. image:: service/pivot.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The default pivot table view of the services.

The table can either be inserted in a spreadsheet or downloaded, if desired.

To add the pivot table to a spreadsheet in Odoo, first, the appearance of the pivot table must
change. The default pivot table view does not allow it to be inserted into a spreadsheet (the
:guilabel:`Inert in Spreadsheet` button is grayed out).

> First, click the :guilabel:`- (minus sign)` to the left of thee word :guilabel:`Total` in the top of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, click the :guilabel:`- (minus)` icon to the left of :guilabel:`Total` at the top of
```

the pivot table. This collapses the service types, leaving only a single :guilabel:`Cost` column
visible.

> Then, click the :guilabel:`Inert in Spreadsheet` button, which is no longer grayed out, and a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, click the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button, which is no longer grayed out, and a
```

:guilabel:`Select a spreadsheet to insert your pivot` pop-up window appears. Two tabs are visible in
this pop-up window, a :guilabel:`Spreadsheets` tab and a :guilabel:`Dashboards` tab.

Click the desired tab to indicate where the spreadsheet should be placed, either in a

> :guilabel:`Spreadsheet` or on a :guilabel:`Dashboard`. Click the specific :guilabel:`Spreadsheet` or
> :guilabel:`Dashboard` to select it, then click :guilabel:`Confirm`. The spreadsheet then loads on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Spreadsheet` or on a :guilabel:`Dashboard`. After clicking the desired option, click :guilabel:`Confirm`. The spreadsheet then loads on
```

.. image:: service/views.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The icons in the top right corner than can be clicked to present the information in
         different ways.

List view
~~~~~~~~~

The default view of the service records is a list view. This presents all the services, first
grouped alphabetically by type of service, then grouped by status.

The information can be re-sorted by any column. At the top of each column, hover over the column
name, and an arrow appears in the far-right of that column. Click the arrow to sort the data by that
specific column.

The default sorting is in descending alphabetical order (A to Z), represented by a :guilabel:`⌄
(down arrow)` icon. Click the :guilabel:`⌄ (down arrow)` icon to reverse the alphabetical order (Z
to A). The :guilabel:`⌄ (down arrow)` icon changes to an :guilabel:`^ (up arrow)` icon.

The two exceptions to this sorting are the default :guilabel:`Date` column and the :guilabel:`Cost`
column. The :guilabel:`Date` column sorts the information in chronological order (January to

> December) instead of alphabetical order. The :guilabel:`Cost` column sorts the information by repair

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
December), instead of alphabetical order. The :guilabel:`Cost` column sorts the information by repair
```

loads. :ref:`Enter all the information <service/service-form>` on the service form.

The form automatically saves as data is entered.

Kanban view
~~~~~~~~~~~

To view services by their stage, click the :guilabel:`Kanban` button, which is the second icon in
the top-right corner, and appears as two different length bars beneath a line.

All services are organized by service type, and appear in the corresponding Kanban column.

The number of repairs for each type of service appears in the far-right of each Kanban column
header.

The collective status of the scheduled activities for each service type appears in the color-coded
bar beneath each Kanban column title. Repairs with activities scheduled in the future appear green,
activities due today appear yellow, overdue activities appear red, and repairs with no activities
scheduled appear gray.

Each Kanban card displays a color-coded activity-related icon, such as a :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon
or :guilabel:`📞 (phone)` icon, for example. These icons indicate both the type of scheduled
activity and the status. The status of the activity corresponds to the colors in the status bar.

> Click on an activity icon to view the details of the specific activity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click on an activity icon to view the details of that specific activity.
```

The length of the color bar is proportionate to the number of corresponding activities with that
specific status in that particular stage. Hover over a color section to reveal the number of service
records in that specific grouping.

.. image:: service/kanban.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The service records presented in a Kanban view.

To view **only** the records with a specific status, click the desired color bar section. The
background color for the column changes to a pale hue of the same color (either green, yellow, red,
or gray), and the color bar appears striped instead of solid. **Only** repairs and services with the
selected status appear in the column.

.. image:: service/kanban-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The oil change service records showing only repairs with past-due activities.

.. _service/schedule-activity:

Schedule activities
*******************

To schedule an activity for a repair or service from the Kanban view, click the activity icon in the
lower-right corner of the service record, and click :guilabel:`+ Schedule an activity`. A
:guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up window appears.

.. note::

>    Depending on what, if any, kind of activity is scheduled, the activity icon may appear

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Depending on what kind of activity, if any, is scheduled, the activity icon may appear
```

>    differently, such as a :guilabel:`⏰ (clock)`.

Reviewer 3: the ending of this sentence is a bit confusing... can you clean-up/clarify it a touch during your revision? thanks

Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Activity Type`: using the drop-down menu, select the activity being scheduled. The
  default options are :guilabel:`Email`, :guilabel:`Call`, :guilabel:`Meeting`, :guilabel:`To-Do`,
  and :guilabel:`Upload Document`.
- :guilabel:`Summary`: enter a short description of the activity, such as `Schedule oil change`.

> - :guilabel:`Due Date`: using the calendar popover, select the date the activity must be completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Due Date`: using the calendar pop-over, select the date the activity must be completed.
```

  Using the :guilabel:`< (left)` and :guilabel:`> (right)` arrow icons, navigate to the desired

>   month, then click on the :guilabel:`date` to select it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  month, then click on the date to select it.
```

- :guilabel:`Assigned to`: using the drop-down menu, select the user responsible for the activity.
- :guilabel:`Notes`: add any notes or details in the blank area in the bottom-half of the form.

When the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` is completed, click :guilabel:`Schedule` to schedule the
activity, or click :guilabel:`Done & Schedule Next` to schedule the current activity and schedule
another activity for the same repair.

.. seealso::
   For more detailed information regarding activities, refer to the main :doc:`activities
   <../../essentials/activities>` document.

Add a service
*************

A new repair can be added from this view. Click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus icon)` in the top-right

> corner of the Kanban column and a new block appears at the top of the column, beneath the Kanban

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
corner of the Kanban column, and a new block appears at the top of the column, beneath the Kanban
```

Enter a :guilabel:`Title` for the service or repair, then click :guilabel:`Add`. A
:guilabel:`Create` service form appears in a pop-up window. :ref:`Enter all the information
<service/service-form>` on the service form, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the record.
The new record now appears in the Kanban column.

Graph view
~~~~~~~~~~

Another way to view the data is in a graph. To change to the graph view, click the :guilabel:`Graph`
icon, which is the third icon in the top right, and appears as a small graph.

The default graph view displays the service information in a stacked bar chart, grouped by
:guilabel:`Service Type`. The X-axis represents the :guilabel:`Service Type` and the Y-axis
represents the :guilabel:`Cost`.

Each column visually represents the total cost for all repairs and services for that specific
:guilabel:`Service Type`. Hover over any bar to reveal a pop-over window that displays the total
:guilabel:`Cost` for the service and repairs the bar represents.

The graph can change to either a :guilabel:`Line Chart` or a :guilabel:`Pie Chart` by clicking the
corresponding button above the graph. Additionally, the graph can display the data in either

> :guilabel:`Stacked`, and :guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order, by clicking the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Stacked`, :guilabel:`Descending`, or :guilabel:`Ascending` order, by clicking the
```

change. The default pivot table view does not allow it to be inserted into a spreadsheet (the
:guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button is grayed out).

First, click the :guilabel:`➖ (minus)` icon to the left of :guilabel:`Total` at the top of the pivot
table. This collapses the service types, leaving only a single :guilabel:`Cost` column visible.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button, which is no longer grayed out, and a
:guilabel:`Select a spreadsheet to insert your pivot` pop-up window appears. Two tabs are visible in
this pop-up window, a :guilabel:`Spreadsheets` tab and a :guilabel:`Dashboards` tab.

Click the desired tab to indicate where the spreadsheet should be placed, either in a
:guilabel:`Spreadsheet` or on a :guilabel:`Dashboard`. After clicking the desired option, click
:guilabel:`Confirm`. The spreadsheet then loads on the screen.

.. note::
   Spreadsheets are stored in Odoo's *Documents* application, while dashboards are stored in Odoo's
   *Dashboards* application.

Click :guilabel:`Services` in the top-left corner to navigate back to the previous pivot table view.

> To download the table in an *xlsx* format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon, represented by
> a :guilabel:`⬇️ (down arrow above a line)` icon.

Reviewer: icon formatting
```suggestion
To download the table in an *xlsx* format, click the download xlsx icon, represented by a
:guilabel:`⬇️ (down arrow above a line)` icon.
```

grouped alphabetically by type of service, then grouped by status.

The information can be re-sorted by any column. At the top of each column, hover over the column
name, and an arrow appears in the far-right of that column. Click the arrow to sort the data by that
specific column.

The default sorting is in descending alphabetical order (A to Z), represented by a :guilabel:`⌄
(down arrow)`. Click the :guilabel:`⌄ (down arrow)` to reverse the alphabetical order (Z to A). The
:guilabel:`⌄ (down arrow)` changes to an :guilabel:`^ (up arrow)`.

The two exceptions to this sorting are the default :guilabel:`Date` column and the :guilabel:`Cost`
column. The :guilabel:`Date` column sorts the information in chronological order (January to
December) instead of alphabetical order, while the :guilabel:`Cost` column sorts the information by
repair price, from lowest to highest.

Add a service
*************

To add a service record from the list view, click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a service form
loads. :ref:`Enter all the information <service/service-form>` on the service form.

The form automatically saves as data is entered.

Kanban view
~~~~~~~~~~~

> To view services by their stage, click on the :guilabel:`Kanban icon`, which is the second icon in

Author: The only reason I thought I could use "Kanban" icon in a gui is when you rollover the icon, it says Kanban- which is why I thought I could use the name for the button. I am not in 100% alignment with your suggestion, only because when we say click "X", X has the gui because it's what you see on the UI - and that always get the gui.  Having the gui so far after the "click this" feels odd to me, since it is a real button they click. I honestly am waffling more over "icon" vs "button" so I changed that a bit around. But that is my logic for why I did it this way.  I do see what you mean, and the gui could even be applied to both- but I do prefer the actual button being named (since it has a name).

the top-right corner, and appears as two different length bars beneath a line.

All services with the same status appear in the corresponding Kanban column, from

> :guilabel:`Running` to :guilabel:`Canceled`.

Author: ::facepalm:: they are organized by type of service... what was I thinking. I rechecked and updated all the spots that needed to be. Thank you!!!

title. Repairs with activities scheduled in the future appear green, activities due today appear
yellow, overdue activities appear red, and repairs with no activities scheduled appear gray.

Each Kanban card displays a color-coded :guilabel:`(activity icon)`, indicating what type of
activity is scheduled, and the status. For example, a scheduled phone call displays a phone icon.
The status colors correspond to the colors in the status bar. Click on an :guilabel:`(activity
icon)` to view the details of the activity.

The length of the color bar is proportionate to the number of corresponding activities with that
status. Hover over a color section to reveal the number of service records in that specific
grouping.

.. image:: service/kanban.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The service records presented in a Kanban view.

To view **only** the records with a specific status, click the desired :guilabel:`color bar`
section. The background color for the column changes to a pale hue of the same color (either green,
yellow, red, or gray), and the color bar appears striped instead of solid. **Only** repairs and

> services with the selected status appear in the column.

Author: I put a gui on that word originally because you do see the bar on the UI and you can click it- but unlike the Kanban button, this doesn't actually say "color bar" when you hover over it, so I agree. As for it being too granular- I see your point, but I also see the value in having it. My reasoning is, this info I do not see in other places. There is an activities doc now in the new Odoo Essentials (I am not sure if that was there when I first wrote this doc- I can't remember, but that is a recent addition). The issue is- that doc doesn't explain what the color bar means or is (and I'll admit, it took me a min to figure it out since in runbot it's always gray, and I needed to add a bunch of activities to see what happens. I didn't realize you could click on a color and show ONLY those entries as well!). So since it seemed like a feature for me, I figured I couldn't be the only one out there who would find it valuable.

.. image:: service/kanban-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The oil change service records showing only repairs with past-due activities.

.. _service/schedule-activity:

Schedule activities
*******************

To schedule an activity for a repair or service from the Kanban view, click the :guilabel:`activity
icon` in the lower-right corner of the service record, and click :guilabel:`+ Schedule an activity`.

> A :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up window appears.

Author: The only reason I didn't want to do the clock was, you can click on any of the icons that appear-  phone, to-do, etc. So since it is an icon that changes, I didn't want to call out something that might not appear. So I removed the gui entirely, and put in a note that it can look like many icons. I think that works- do you?

Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Activity Type`: using the drop-down menu, select the activity being scheduled. The
  default options are :guilabel:`Email`, :guilabel:`Call`, :guilabel:`Meeting`, :guilabel:`To-Do`,
  and :guilabel:`Upload Document`.
- :guilabel:`Summary`: enter a short description of the activity, such as `Schedule oil change`.
- :guilabel:`Due Date`: using the calendar popover, select the date the activity must be completed.
  Using the :guilabel:`< (left)` and :guilabel:`> (right)` arrow icons, navigate to the desired
  month, then click on the :guilabel:`date` to select it.
- :guilabel:`Assigned to`: using the drop-down menu, select the user responsible for the activity.
- :guilabel:`Notes`: add any notes or details in the blank area in the bottom-half of the form.

When the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` is completed, click :guilabel:`Schedule` to schedule the
activity, or click :guilabel:`Done & Schedule Next` to schedule the current activity and schedule
another activity for the same repair.

> 

Author: I am torn- because I do like that they have everything they need here. But there is a place in the activities doc where they do show adding an activity from the kanban view (and now I want to update that doc because it is so old!) Ugh.. I honestly don't know how I feel! What a cop out, I know. Although when I look at the doc, it is such a small section, I feel like I want to keep it more so it's a "one and done" or an "everything you need" doc.

.. seealso::
   For more detailed information regarding activities, refer to the main :doc:`activities
   <../../essentials/activities>` document.

> Add a service

Author: Yes- but it has a different heading style. I was torn- I am not sure if it is not possible (as in you get an error, but i didn't see one) if it was the same. But it is a necessary instruction- and to keep it from being a long section, this is such a sort entry because it links to how to add a service with the steps in the first instance, when it is done form the main serviced dashboard view (list view).  I could change the heading but I thought it was OK that it was the same. If not- I can change this.

> Add a service

Reviewer 3: I understand.  How about 'Add a service (Kanban view)` -- or something like that?

*************

A new repair can be added from this view. Click the :guilabel:`+ (plus icon)` in the top-right
corner of the Kanban column and a new block appears at the top of the column, beneath the Kanban
title.

Enter a :guilabel:`Name` for the service or repair, then click :guilabel:`Add`. A :guilabel:`Create`
service form appears in a pop-up window. :ref:`Enter all the information <service/service-form>` on
the service form, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the record. The new record now appears
in the Kanban column.

Graph view
~~~~~~~~~~

Another way to view the data is in a graph. To change to the graph view, click the :guilabel:`Graph

> icon`, which is the third icon in the top right, and appears as a small graph.

Author: I'm pushing back on this one again, since when you rollover it, it does say Graph- so I feel that is the "proper name" of the actual button.  But I did take 'icon' out of the gui since that does not appear on roll-over, and is not part of the proper name.
